In this video, we're going
to focus on developing
our Power BI report and some
of the tools that
can help us do this.
To begin with, we would like
to add our corporate branding,
so we want to put our company
logo onto our report.
We're going to come up
to our insert ribbon.
There's some great tools that we
can insert from this ribbon.
For example, the Q&A will provide
report users with the option
to interrogate the data directly.
We can add text boxes, buttons,
shapes, or what we're looking
for, which is an image.
We're going to click, "Image" and
just navigate to your
downloads folder,
and select the AW Banner.
It has inserted the image,
and we're going to move it to
the top left corner and then
resize it so it runs the
whole way across the report.
The other thing
you may wish to do
is change the color scheme.
We do this from our view ribbon.
I'm going to come to
the view tab this time,
and there's a gallery of themes.
If you click the drop-down,
quite a few options
which will change
your color scheme
throughout the report.
If none of these
themes are suitable,
there's actually a theme gallery
available on the
Microsoft website.
Some of these are
really stunning.
They can be downloaded
or you can just use
them as inspiration.
Alternatively, you
can just grab one of
the existing themes
and customize it,
and that's what
we're going to do.
Clicking the drop-down,
we're going to go for
the high contrast and
just see it's changed our
color scheme throughout.
But our main colors are actually
the light blue and the dark blue,
so I want to make a small
customization to the theme.
I'm going to come
back to my drop-down
and I'm going to select,
"Customize current theme."
Here is where you can specify
the colors for your theme.
For example, if I come to
the light blue and
click the drop-down,
you can either enter
hex code or an RGB.
I'm just going to
copy that hex code,
so Control C, because
I'm going to swap the light
blue and green around.
I'm then going to
come to color one.
I'm going to check the RGBs,
that's 16 124 16,
and then I'm going
to paste my blue.
Then coming back
to the light blue,
I'm going to type in the RGB.
That was 16 124 16.
If I then click, "Apply",
that will then swap the
blue and the green around.
Very easy to create
your own color scheme.
By default, reports are
only a single page,
but there's nothing to
stop us adding more pages.
If you come down to the
bottom of the screen,
you'll see this page is called,
"Page 1". Not a great name.
We're going to double-click,
and I'm going to change
this to Sales Report.
Then to add another page,
I can either right-click on
this one and duplicate it,
or I can click on the plus to
add a completely new page.
I'm going to name this
one Sales Trends.
Double-click, Sales Trends.
Then coming back to
my sales report,
I can copy paste any of
the components on this
page onto the other one.
I'm going to do
that with a banner,
to selecting my banner,
control C to copy,
on to Sales Trends and
control V to paste.
Terrific. Now, back
in my sales report,
on the banner, I actually want
to see three key metrics.
I want to see my total revenue,
the number of orders placed,
and how many items
were actually sold.
Now, if I come to
my Order_Items on the
right-hand side and expand it,
I already have a
measure for revenue,
but I don't have measures
for the other two.
Guess what? We're going
to create a few measures.
Making sure you've got
all the items selected,
come up to table tools ribbon,
and we're going to
click, "New measure".
The first one we're going
to add is our items sold.
I'm going to call this,
"Items Sold" and equals.
This is going to be a sum, and
I'm trying to add up
my order quantity.
We're just going to
type qty and tab,
close your bracket for your
sum, and press "Enter".
You'll see another
measure has been added.
Now we also want the
number of orders placed.
Once again, can you
click, "New measure".
We're going to call this one
orders and equals but
this time it's a count,
so COU and tab to select
count and we're going to
count is our sales order ID
because that uniquely
identifies each order.
I'm just going to type SAL,
the sales order ID
and close our bracket
and press "Enter".
Now something very interesting
I'd like you to notice,
although the sales order ID
is actually on our orders table,
because we had selected all
the items in the first place,
it has added that measure
to our order items table.
Unlike calculated columns,
measures are not tied
to a particular table,
we can actually
store them anywhere.
The default is to store them with
the table where the
original data came from,
it gives us context and
makes it easier to find,
but we don't have to.
As you can see here,
the measures are
now being all scattered around.
They can become hard to
find and make it trickier
to work with them.
So a lot of people will
actually recommend that you
create a separate measures table.
Some of the approaches
to doing this
are quite clumsy and they can
end up with downsides like
either people end up hiding
a whole bunch of columns
they might need later or it's
quite hard to recognize where the
data's coming from in
those measures when they
are no longer associated
with the original table.
Matt Allington, who is the
MI Power BI hero has come up
with really neat solution
and that is what
we're going to do.
We're actually going to create
a folder and put all of
our columns that are not
measures inside the
folder so that all of
our measures are grouped nicely
together and quick to get to.
Now that sounds complicated,
but it's actually
really easy to do.
On the left-hand side,
can you come back to data model,
find your order items table
and we're going to click
the three little dots,
the ellipses top-right corner
and you'll see we have
the option to select all of
our measures and put them
in a folder on their own,
which a lot of people
will recommend,
but the problem is it
makes them hard to get to,
and it's the measures we
normally need to get to.
Alternatively, we can reverse
the thinking and
select more columns,
and that's what
we're going to do.
So select columns.
If you're properties
panel is still hidden,
can you just click
to expand that?
We're going to create
a display folder,
so click in that box.
We're going to call it
underscore columns.
We can't call it columns
because that's a reserved word.
When we press "Enter",
it's going to
take all the columns and put
them in their own folder
which you can now see has
happened on the right.
Coming back to our report,
you will see that
the columns folders
automatically collapsed and
now all of our measures
are still with
the order items so still
in a logical place,
but really easy to
find and get to.
All right, great.
We are organized.
Let's go and create
those metrics.
I'm just going to
shrink this table up a
little bit so we've got
some space to work in.
We're going to start
with our orders.
Can you grab orders, drag it,
and drop it onto your canvas
and we are automatically
getting a column chart,
which in this case is not
telling us very much.
What we'd prefer to have
is the actual number
itself and there's a great
visualization for doing this,
it's called a card,
so come up to
visualizations and select
card and just see it
changes to just give
us the actual number.
I'm going to resize that,
drag and drop it onto my banner.
You can use your arrow
keys to reposition.
The black on the dark blue
is quite hard to read.
Now we need to make
a bit of a change to
some of the properties
of that visualizations.
To do that, we're
going to come back
to our visualizations panel,
and under the visuals
themselves you'll see
a button format looks like
a little paint brush.
We're going to click
on the Format and what
we need to do is
change the data label,
and I'm going to
make that white to
see there are loads of options
you can change in here.
Nice and easy to read.
I don't have to repeat that
process three more times.
I can just copy
paste this visual,
so just make sure it's
selected and then
Control C and Control V twice.
Then grabbing the one
you added most recently,
we're going to click and
drag it to the other side of
the banner and you see
those red dotted lines?
Those are Intelliguides that
help you line your visuals
up with other visuals
nearby. Really handy.
I'm going to do the same
with the middle one,
just making sure that's
nicely lined up.
Then all we need to do
is swap out the metrics.
Back in the visualizations pane,
can you switch back to fields?
We're going to remove
orders and add revenue.
Then for the last
one, we can remove
orders and add items sold.
Clicking away, you can see.
That's looking really good.
If we wanted to see
the same metrics
on our other report page,
same as we did before.
Holding "Control down".
I'm going to select all
three, "Control C".
Click on sales trends and
"Control V". Too easy.
I'm back in my sales report
and there's one last
thing we're going to do.
There is a fantastic selection of
visualizations
right-hand Power BI.
But if none of those
meet your needs,
there are actually an
increasing number of
third party visuals that you can
download directly
from Microsoft Store
or from Power BI itself.
To get them from Power BI,
we're going to come to
our visualizations panel,
click the three little dots.
The top option will allow us
to go direct to get them.
If you have downloaded
them from the store,
you'll just need to
click import a visual.
We're going to click
get more visuals.
At this point you may
be prompted to sign-in.
You'll need to provide
your Microsoft
Sign-in for either
your user account
or your education count.
For more information on that,
check out the toolbox.
Now, in this search box,
we can search for
particular visual or you
can just scan through and
see what's out there.
We're actually looking for
something quite specific.
We'd like to add a violin plot.
I'm going to type in violin
and press "Enter" to
search. There it is.
Now to add it, all I need to
do is click the "Add" button.
It's going to double-check
and I'm going to say,
yes, that's great.
If you have a look
in your panel now,
you'll see a new visualization
has been added called
a violin plot.
We better make a bit
of space for this guy.
I'm going to just
shrink down my treemap.
Then I'm going to
pop my violin chart.
Let's just pop that in here.
If you've never come across
a violin chart before,
there is a bit more
information again in
the toolbox that you can
read up a bit about it.
But put simply, it will allow us
to present statistical
information
called long statistical
information in a
very easy to understand way.
What we'd like to see is
some statistics around
how the different subcategories
of items are selling.
First thing I'm going to
do is in my fields panel,
I'm going to come
down to products
because that's going
to tell me about
my subcategory and I'm going
to select subcategory.
It's just telling me
that it's going to use
that information as my sampling,
but now I need the
actual measurement.
For that we're going
to use items sold.
How many items were
actually sold?
Can you just select that?
Finally, we'd also like to add
a category and this is going
to be our fiscal year.
If you can come up to Calendar
and select fiscal year.
Now, you see why it's
called a violin plot.
Now, if you hover over one
of the little violins,
you will see it's
telling me the min,
the max, the median,
the mean and the
standard deviation.
To understand a little better,
picture it as a
histogram on its side.
This is telling me
that the most of
the subcategories sold
about 2,000 items,
but there were a few
in 2019 that actually
sold nearly 20,000 items.
Just like we saw with the
other visualizations.
Third-party visuals
can be formatted.
With it's still selected,
I'm going to come over to my
paint brush, my format tool.
I'm going to come
down to data colors.
I want each category
to be its own color.
I'm going to turn that on
and then I'm going to change
my transparency to zero so
they look a little brighter.
There's my finished violin plot.
We still have one
empty space left.
That's your homework challenge.
I'd like you to create
an appropriate visual to
show the breakdown of
sales by category.
When you're done, join us for
our next video where we start
looking at some of the tools for
working with our reports.